PLASTIQUE-2900 VIRUS


The Plastique Virus is Parasitic on COM & EXE files but excludes
COMMAND.COM.  The infection method is slightly unusual in that
COM files have the virus code prepended to the file, while EXE
files have it appended.  In either case, the infective length is
2900 bytes and no stealth capabilities exist to mask this
increase in file length.  After infection, file attributes and
date/time settings are partially encrypted but allows the
extraction of a recognition string.

This virus becomes resident in high memory by using the DOS
Terminate and Stay Resident function 31H.  During installation a
timing routine determines the processing speed and this is used
for sound effects later.

As it becomes resident, INT 21H is intercepted by a special
handler which will cause file infection on function requests
4B00H & 3D00H, these correspond to Load & Execute, and Open File
for Read Only.  The DOS Critical Error handler (INT 24H) is
bypassed during the infective cycle to avoid error messages.

On a random basis, virus installation after 20th Sept. 1990 may
cause other handlers to be installed which will produce certain
sound effects and may result in execution of the trigger
routine.
These handlers are as follows:-
One of two INT 08 - Timer Interrupt handlers are installed
(chances are even of either one being installed).

Handler 1 increments the timer counter and slows processing
progressively up to a limit decided during installation timing.

Handler 2 also increments the timer counter and makes "explosion"
noise about every 4.5 minutes.

An INT 09 - Keyboard Interrupt handler is installed which will
intercept a Ctrl-Alt-Del key sequence and then act according to
which INT 08 handler is installed.  If Handler 1 is present then
the trigger routine is activated.  If Handler 2 is present then
Non-volatile RAM is overwritten with OFFH bytes.  The INT 09
handler also counts keypresses, and after 4000 keypresses, an
error will be forced on the next disk write request to INT 13H.

An INT 13H - Disk Access handler is installed which intercepts
write requests and forces an error according to the condition of
a flag.  The error consists of putting -1 into DX (Head & Drive)
and completing the call.  The routine then returns without
setting the relevant flags so that the caller is not aware that
his data has NOT been written.

The Trigger routine occurs immediately on execution of ACAD.EXE,
otherwise during a Ctrl-Alt-Del sequence from within INT 09
handler if INT 08 Handler 1 is installed and the timer counter
has reached a predetermined limit.  The actual routine checks if
there is a floppy disk in drive A:, if so it overwrites head 0 of
all tracks with the contents of memory from address 0000:0000.
Processing continues similarly for floppy in drive B:, zapping it
if possible.  Then the "explosion" routine is set to occur as
both the first and second fixed disk drives are overwritten on
all heads and tracks.  Finally a loop overwrites the contents of
CMOS by direct port access.

The virus recognises itself in memory by issuing an INT 21H with
4B40H in the AX register.  If the virus is resident, the call
returns with 5678H in AX.  Recognition on disk is by examining
the word at offset 12H in the target file.  If this word is 1989H
then the file is assumed to be infected.

The recognition string for the Plastique virus is as follows :-

        B840 4BCD 213D 7856 7512 B841 4BBF 0001

and this will be found at offset 82CH into the virus code.

(attributed to Jim Bates Jan.1991)
